.TH YELBEGEN 1 "January 2026" "Yelbegen 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
yelbegen \- Passive OSINT reconnaissance scanner
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B yelbegen
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fItarget\fR
.br
.B yelbegen
\fB\-ua\fR \fIservice\fR \fIapi_key\fR
.br
.B yelbegen
\fB\-la\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B yelbegen
is a passive OSINT (Open Source Intelligence) reconnaissance tool that performs comprehensive scanning of domains and IP addresses using multiple intelligence sources. It operates in three distinct modes: basic, full, and API-enhanced scanning.

The tool aggregates information from various public data sources including DNS records, WHOIS databases, certificate transparency logs, GeoIP databases, and optional API services like VirusTotal, SecurityTrails, Shodan, and URLScan.io.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Scanning Modes
.TP
.I target
Domain or IP address to scan (required for scanning modes)
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-full
Full mode - Enhanced passive scanning with ProcessPoolExecutor and clickable links. Includes all free scanners: GeoIP, WHOIS, DNS, Subdomains (crt.sh), Archive.org, HTTP Headers, and Google Dorks.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-api
API mode - Use API-enhanced scanners (VirusTotal, SecurityTrails, Shodan, URLScan.io). Requires API keys to be configured.
.SS API Key Management
.TP
.B \-ua, \-\-upload-api \fIservice\fR \fIapi_key\fR
Upload and store an API key for a service. Valid services: virustotal, securitytrails, shodan, urlscan
.TP
.B \-la, \-\-list-api
List the configuration status of all API keys
.SS General Options
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help message and exit
.SH MODES
.SS Basic Mode (Default)
.B yelbegen example.com

Uses modular multiprocessing architecture with the following free scanners:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
WHOIS information
.IP \(bu 2
DNS records (A, MX, NS, TXT)
.IP \(bu 2
GeoIP location
.IP \(bu 2
Subdomain enumeration (crt.sh)
.IP \(bu 2
AlienVault OTX threat intelligence
.IP \(bu 2
Shodan InternetDB (free tier)
.RE
.SS Full Mode
.B yelbegen \-f example.com

Enhanced scanning with Rich UI, clickable links, and ProcessPoolExecutor:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
WHOIS data
.IP \(bu 2
GeoIP with Google Maps link
.IP \(bu 2
DNS records
.IP \(bu 2
Subdomain enumeration
.IP \(bu 2
Archive.org Wayback Machine
.IP \(bu 2
HTTP headers and technology detection
.IP \(bu 2
Google Dork suggestions with clickable search links
.RE
.SS API Mode
.B yelbegen \-a example.com

API-enhanced intelligence scanning (requires API keys):
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
VirusTotal - Domain reputation and security analysis
.IP \(bu 2
SecurityTrails - DNS history and subdomain discovery
.IP \(bu 2
Shodan API - Detailed host intelligence and vulnerability data
.IP \(bu 2
URLScan.io - URL analysis and screenshot capture
.RE
.SH API KEY MANAGEMENT
API keys are stored in the
.I .env
file located in the project root directory.
.SS Adding an API Key
.nf
\fByelbegen \-ua virustotal YOUR_API_KEY_HERE\fR
\fByelbegen \-ua securitytrails YOUR_API_KEY_HERE\fR
\fByelbegen \-ua shodan YOUR_API_KEY_HERE\fR
\fByelbegen \-ua urlscan YOUR_API_KEY_HERE\fR
.fi
.SS Checking API Key Status
.nf
\fByelbegen \-la\fR
.fi
.SS Manual Configuration
You can also manually edit the
.I .env
file:
.nf
VIRUSTOTAL_API_KEY=your_key_here
SECURITYTRAILS_API_KEY=your_key_here
SHODAN_API_KEY=your_key_here
URLSCAN_API_KEY=your_key_here
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Basic passive scan
.nf
\fByelbegen google.com\fR
.fi
.SS Full scan with enhanced UI
.nf
\fByelbegen \-f tesla.com\fR
.fi
.SS API-enhanced scan
.nf
\fByelbegen \-a github.com\fR
.fi
.SS Configure API keys
.nf
\fByelbegen \-ua virustotal a1b2c3d4e5f6...\fR
\fByelbegen \-la\fR
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.env
API key storage file (user's .env in project directory)
.TP
.I .env.example
Template file showing API key format
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful scan completion
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred during scanning or invalid arguments
.SH NOTES
All scanning performed by yelbegen is passive and does not interact directly with target systems. Information is gathered from public databases and third-party services only.

Some features require API keys which may have rate limits or usage restrictions imposed by the service providers.

The tool respects robots.txt and follows ethical OSINT practices.
.SH API KEY SOURCES
.TP
.B VirusTotal
https://www.virustotal.com/gui/my-apikey
.TP
.B SecurityTrails
https://securitytrails.com/app/account/credentials
.TP
.B Shodan
https://account.shodan.io/
.TP
.B URLScan.io
https://urlscan.io/user/profile/
.SH ARCHITECTURE
Yelbegen uses a multiprocessing architecture with concurrent scanning workers. The basic mode uses Python's multiprocessing, while full and API modes use ProcessPoolExecutor for efficient parallel execution.

Results are displayed using the Rich library for beautiful terminal output with panels, tables, and clickable hyperlinks (when supported by the terminal).
.SH AUTHOR
Written by the Yelbegen development team.
.SH COPYRIGHT
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR whois (1),
.BR dig (1),
.BR nmap (1),
.BR curl (1)
